Revise release notes (#12670)
projectcalico/calico: release-notes/v3.32.0-release-notes.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Seamless live migration for Project Calico for OpenStack

Calico for OpenStack has been updated to take advantage of the same internal `LiveMigration` API used for KubeVirt, dramatically reducing the latency between when a VM becomes active on the target node and when network traffic can flow successfully to and from it.
Previously, the OpenStack driver would wait until Nova reported live migration as complete before creating the workload endpoint on the target node, which left a window where the VM was running but its security and routing programming was not yet in place.

The driver now declares the migration to Calico at the "pre-live-migration" point, creates the target-side `WorkloadEndpoint` up front, and signals back into Neutron via `live_migration_wait_for_vif_plug` once initial networking and security policy are programmed.
Combined with BIRD's new BGP-based route priority propagation, this delivers a noticeably tighter cutover for VMs migrating across nodes.

For a more in-depth look please see [Live migration for OpenStack VMs](https://docs.tigera.io/calico/latest/networking/openstack/live-migration).  
```

Reviewer: @nelljerram could you take a look at this summary for the Openstack live migration changes, for accuracy and level-of-detail? Feel free to change it.

Reviewer 2: That reads very nicely, and I think is accurate, thank you!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Seamless live migration support for KubeVirt VMs
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Calico IPAM has been extended to persist VM IP addresses across reboots, evictions, and migrations using stable VMI-based IPAM handles and dual-owner allocation attributes that allow atomic ownership transfer between source and target pods.
```

30 Apr 2026

#### Seamless live migration support for KubeVirt VMs

> Project Calico now supports seamless live migration for KubeVirt virtual machines, allowing VMs to retain their IP address and continue serving network traffic with minimal disruption as they move between nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Project Calico now supports seamless live migration for KubeVirt virtual machines, allowing a VM to retain its IP address and continue serving network traffic with minimal disruption as they move between nodes.
```

This release introduces a new `LiveMigration` API resource together with a per-workload state machine in Felix (Base → Target → Live → TimeWait → Base) that adjusts route priorities during migration and detects migration completion via GARP/RARP probes.

Calico IPAM has been extended to persist VM IP addresses across reboots, evictions, and migrations using stable VMI-based IPAM handles and dual-owner allocation attributes that allow atomic ownership transfer between source and target pods.
A new `--kubevirt-ip-persistence` flag on `calicoctl ipam configure` lets administrators toggle this behavior cluster-wide.

To propagate the elevated route priority for the migrating VM through BGP, the BIRD configuration generated by confd now translates Calico route priority to and from BGP `LOCAL_PREF` within a contiguous AS, and the `BGPFilter` API has been extended with new match criteria (`PeerType`, `Communities`, `ASPathPrefix`, `Priority`) and route operations (`AddCommunity`, `PrependASPath`, `SetPriority`) so that operators can craft the BGP policies needed for advanced live-migration topologies.

> #### Seamless live migration for Project Calico for OpenStack

Reviewer: ```suggestion

#### Seamless live migration for Project Calico for OpenStack
```

#### Seamless live migration for Project Calico for OpenStack

Calico for OpenStack has been updated to take advantage of the same internal `LiveMigration` API used for KubeVirt, dramatically reducing the latency between when a VM becomes active on the target node and when network traffic can flow successfully to and from it.
Previously, the OpenStack driver would wait until Nova reported live migration as complete before creating the workload endpoint on the target node, which left a window where the VM was running but its security and routing programming was not yet in place.

The driver now declares the migration to Calico at the "pre-live-migration" point, creates the target-side `WorkloadEndpoint` up front, and signals back into Neutron via `live_migration_wait_for_vif_plug` once initial networking and security policy are programmed.
Combined with BIRD's new BGP-based route priority propagation, this delivers a noticeably tighter cutover for VMs migrating across nodes.

> For a more in-depth look please see [Live migration for OpenStack VMs](https://docs.tigera.io/calico/latest/networking/openstack/live-migration).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Seamless live migration for Project Calico for OpenStack

Calico for OpenStack has been updated to take advantage of the same internal `LiveMigration` API used for KubeVirt, dramatically reducing the latency between when a VM becomes active on the target node and when network traffic can flow successfully to and from it.
Previously, the OpenStack driver would wait until Nova reported live migration as complete before creating the workload endpoint on the target node, which left a window where the VM was running but its security and routing programming was not yet in place.

The driver now declares the migration to Calico at the "pre-live-migration" point, creates the target-side `WorkloadEndpoint` up front, and signals back into Neutron via `live_migration_wait_for_vif_plug` once initial networking and security policy are programmed.
Combined with BIRD's new BGP-based route priority propagation, this delivers a noticeably tighter cutover for VMs migrating across nodes.

For a more in-depth look please see [Live migration for OpenStack VMs](https://docs.tigera.io/calico/latest/networking/openstack/live-migration). 

```

This release introduces a new `LiveMigration` API resource together with a per-workload state machine in Felix (Base → Target → Live → TimeWait → Base) that adjusts route priorities during migration and detects migration completion via GARP/RARP probes.

Calico IPAM has been extended to persist VM IP addresses across reboots, evictions, and migrations using stable VMI-based IPAM handles and dual-owner allocation attributes that allow atomic ownership transfer between source and target pods.
A new `--kubevirt-ip-persistence` flag on `calicoctl ipam configure` lets administrators toggle this behavior cluster-wide.

To propagate the elevated route priority for the migrating VM through BGP, the BIRD configuration generated by confd now translates Calico route priority to and from BGP `LOCAL_PREF` within a contiguous AS, and the `BGPFilter` API has been extended with new match criteria (`PeerType`, `Communities`, `ASPathPrefix`, `Priority`) and route operations (`AddCommunity`, `PrependASPath`, `SetPriority`) so that operators can craft the BGP policies needed for advanced live-migration topologies.

> #### Seamless live migration for Project Calico for OpenStack

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Seamless live migration for OpenStack
```

- [#12062](https://github.com/projectcalico/calico/pull/12062) - manifest-mode install path with standalone webhooks and v1-to-v3 CRD migration.
#### Whisker policy verdict and UI improvements

Whisker, Calico's flow-log UI, has been extended with a richer set of filters and clearer surfacing of policy verdict information so that operators can quickly understand why a flow was allowed, denied, or staged.
New filter dimensions include `Policy`, `Reporter`, `Action`, `Start time`, and a dedicated "pending/staged actions" filter that highlights flows whose verdict came from a staged policy rather than an enforced one.
The UI has been polished with updated tooltips and helper text on the policy filter, taller filter controls so long policy names are readable, refreshed Calico iconography, and several memoization and rendering bug fixes that make the experience faster and more reliable on busy clusters.

The Whisker backend has been refactored alongside the UI: `PolicyMatch` fields now use a structured `StringMatch` type for more flexible matching, and stream de-duplication has moved from the client into the backend so the UI no longer has to filter out duplicate flow events itself.

> The eBPF data plane now sends a TCP RST to clients whose connection is pinned to a backend pod that has just been deleted, instead of silently leaving the connection in a half-open state until it eventually times out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

#### Reset TCP connections when a backend pod is deleted (eBPF)

The eBPF data plane now sends a TCP RST to clients whose connection is pinned to a backend pod that has just been deleted, instead of silently leaving the connection in a half-open state until it eventually times out.
```

- [#11493](https://github.com/projectcalico/calico/pull/11493) - migration controller to align underlying policy storage with v3 API names.
- [#11803](https://github.com/projectcalico/calico/pull/11803) - validating admission webhook for tier-based RBAC on policy CRUD.
- [#12062](https://github.com/projectcalico/calico/pull/12062) - manifest-mode install path with standalone webhooks and v1-to-v3 CRD migration.

> #### Reset TCP connections when a backend pod is deleted (eBPF)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- [#11803](https://github.com/projectcalico/calico/pull/11803) - validating admission webhook for tier-based RBAC on policy CRUD.
- [#12062](https://github.com/projectcalico/calico/pull/12062) - manifest-mode install path with standalone webhooks and v1-to-v3 CRD migration.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Whisker policy verdict and UI improvements

Whisker, Calico's flow-log UI, has been extended with a richer set of filters and clearer surfacing of policy verdict information so that operators can quickly understand why a flow was allowed, denied, or staged.
New filter dimensions include `Policy`, `Reporter`, `Action`, `Start time`, and a dedicated "pending/staged actions" filter that highlights flows whose verdict came from a staged policy rather than an enforced one.

The UI has been polished with a rebuilt Policy filter that now works as a compound query builder, letting users combine Kind, Tier, Namespace, and Name into a single expression instead of being limited to filtering by policy name alone. Multiple expressions can now be stacked with "+ Add query" and are OR'd together, for example: (kind=X and tier=Y) OR (namespace=Z). This unlocks expressive multi-field filters that weren't possible before. A new "Filter by no policy" toggle is also introduced so users can isolate flows that matched no policy at all, alongside the rest of the new filter set: Reporter, Action, and Start time.

The Whisker backend has been refactored alongside the UI: `PolicyMatch` fields now use a structured `StringMatch` type for more flexible matching.

```

Reviewer: @skoryk-oleksandr could you review this and make sure it looks good to you?

Reviewer 3: @stevegaossou  I don't remember this part tbh: `stream de-duplication has moved from the client into the backend so the UI no longer has to filter out duplicate flow events itself`. I would remove it.

Reviewer 3: @stevegaossou I would also replace UI part with this: 
The UI has been polished with a rebuilt Policy filter that now works as a compound query builder, letting users combine Kind, Tier, Namespace, and Name into a single expression instead of being limited to filtering by policy name alone. Multiple expressions can now be stacked with "+ Add query" and are OR'd together, for example: `(kind=X and tier=Y) OR (namespace=Z)`. This unlocks expressive multi-field filters that weren't possible before. A new "Filter by no policy" toggle is also introduced so users can isolate flows that matched no policy at all, alongside the rest of the new filter set: Reporter, Action, and Start time.

Reviewer: Okay, thanks @skoryk-oleksandr. I updated the suggestion at the top with your feedback.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

#### Istio Ambient Mode support

Project Calico now integrates with Istio's Ambient Mesh data plane, bringing the security and observability benefits of a service mesh to clusters running Calico's network policy without requiring sidecar injection.
Two new Felix configuration fields — `istioAmbientMode` and `istioDSCPMark` — control how Felix interoperates with Istio's ztunnel: when ambient mode is enabled, Calico preserves the original destination port of service traffic instead of redirecting it to ztunnel's port 15008, which keeps Calico's microsegmentation `NetworkPolicy` rules accurate end-to-end.

```

Reviewer: @radixo could you review this summary in the release note for Istio Ambient mode? Feel free to change it.

Reviewer 4: It's perfect, very precise! Ready to be applied.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

#### Hand off cluster route programming from BIRD to Felix

Introduce ProgramClusterRoutes option in BGPConfiguration to control how a cluster node gets a route to a workload on another node, when that workload's IP comes from an IP Pool with vxlanMode: Never.
When ProgramClusterRoutes is Enabled, confd and BIRD program that route. When ProgramClusterRoutes is Disabled, it is expected that Felix will program that route.

Felix always programs such routes for IP Pools with vxlanMode: Always or vxlanMode: CrossSubnet. [Default: Enabled]

For more information about the configuration please see [Cluster route programming](https://docs.tigera.io/calico/latest/networking/configuring/vxlan-ipip#cluster-route-programming). 

```

Reviewer: cc @mazdakn here's the summary for Felix in-cluster route programming. It's the same blurb as the PR itself.

Reviewer 5: The release note look ok to me. Is it possible to add link to docs for more information or is it unnecessary?

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

#### ClusterNetworkPolicy support

Calico now implements the standard fields of upstream Kubernetes [`ClusterNetworkPolicy`](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/network-policy-api) API, including the experimental network peers and named ports functionality.
On startup, Calico creates two new static tiers — `kube-admin` (order 1,000) and `kube-baseline` (order 10,000,000) — and `ClusterNetworkPolicy` resources are mapped into the corresponding tier based on whether their `tier` field is `Admin` or `Baseline`.
This gives cluster administrators a standard, portable way to express cluster-wide allow/deny policy that sits above and below the developer-managed `NetworkPolicy` layer.

As part of this work, Calico's previous support for the older `AdminNetworkPolicy` (ANP) and `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` (BANP) APIs has been removed in favor of `ClusterNetworkPolicy`, and the corresponding `adminnetworkpolicy` and `baselineadminnetworkpolicy` static tiers are gone.
Existing ANP and BANP resources must be removed or rewritten as `ClusterNetworkPolicy` before upgrading to v3.32, since v3.32 and newer will no longer enforce them.

```

Reviewer: @mazdakn here's the summary for CNP. It's derived from the PR release notes, but adds a bit more info. Feel free to change this to your liking.

Reviewer 5: Looks great. Just a small suggestion on the first line:

> Calico now implements the standard fields of upstream Kubernetes [`ClusterNetworkPolicy`](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/network-policy-api) API.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

#### Maglev-style service load balancer (eBPF)

Calico's eBPF data plane now supports Maglev-style consistent-hash load balancing for Kubernetes Services, enabling ingress traffic to fail over to a different load-balancing node without breaking existing connections when a node becomes unavailable.
Maglev produces a stable, deterministic backend selection across all nodes that is preserved as long as the connection's 5-tuple and the backend set are unchanged, with minimal disruption when the backend set churns.
This is based on Google's published [Maglev paper](https://static.googleusercontent.com/media/research.google.com/en//pubs/archive/44824.pdf).

To opt a service into Maglev, annotate it as documented; this is intended for externally-reachable services such as `LoadBalancer`, `ExternalIP`, and reachable `ClusterIP` services.
`NodePort` services are excluded because the client is already tied to a specific node and would not benefit from failover.
New `FelixConfiguration` settings allow administrators to increase the maximum size of the underlying Maglev lookup tables to fit the scale of their deployments. A new Prometheus metric `felix_bpf_conntrack_maglev_entries_total` is exported so operators can observe how many connections are being handled via Maglev.

For more information, please see [Add Maglev load balancing to a service](https://docs.tigera.io/calico/latest/networking/configuring/add-maglev-load-balancing). 

```

Reviewer: @aaaaaaaalex could you look this one over and see if it's to your liking. It's derived from your PR release note.

Reviewer 6: I would maybe add the explicit term "ingress traffic" somewhere so as not to suggest it's designed for intra-cluster traffic.

Re: the FelixConfig paragraph, the options only affect the _max_ size of the maps - otherwise they grow dynamically as needed. Maybe a better way of phrasing it would be: `New FelixConfiguration settings allow administrators to increase the maximum size of the underlying Maglev lookup tables to fit the scale of their deployments. [...]`

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Reset TCP connections when a backend pod is deleted (eBPF)

The eBPF data plane now sends a TCP RST to clients whose connection is pinned to a backend pod that has just been deleted, instead of silently leaving the connection in a half-open state until it eventually times out.
This is particularly valuable in combination with the new Maglev load balancer: when a backend disappears, clients are notified immediately and can reconnect, at which point Maglev's consistent-hash selection routes them to a healthy backend.
This release adds a dedicated BPF program for emitting RSTs, a workload-removal scanner that flags conntrack entries belonging to deleted backends, and adjusts the stale-NAT scanner so that TCP NAT entries are preserved long enough for the reset to be sent.
```

Reviewer: @sridhartigera does this summary for the reset TCP connection change look good to you? Feel free to change it.

Reviewer 7: Looks good to me.

Reviewer: Okay, thanks @sridhartigera. Applying this change now.

- [#11493](https://github.com/projectcalico/calico/pull/11493) - migration controller to align underlying policy storage with v3 API names.
- [#11803](https://github.com/projectcalico/calico/pull/11803) - validating admission webhook for tier-based RBAC on policy CRUD.
- [#12062](https://github.com/projectcalico/calico/pull/12062) - manifest-mode install path with standalone webhooks and v1-to-v3 CRD migration.

> #### Whisker policy verdict and UI improvements

Reviewer: ```suggestion

#### Whisker policy verdict and UI improvements
```

#### Whisker policy verdict and UI improvements

Whisker, Calico's flow-log UI, has been extended with a richer set of filters and clearer surfacing of policy verdict information so that operators can quickly understand why a flow was allowed, denied, or staged.
New filter dimensions include `Policy`, `Reporter`, `Action`, `Start time`, and a dedicated "pending/staged actions" filter that highlights flows whose verdict came from a staged policy rather than an enforced one.
The UI has been polished with updated tooltips and helper text on the policy filter, taller filter controls so long policy names are readable, refreshed Calico iconography, and several memoization and rendering bug fixes that make the experience faster and more reliable on busy clusters.

The Whisker backend has been refactored alongside the UI: `PolicyMatch` fields now use a structured `StringMatch` type for more flexible matching, and stream de-duplication has moved from the client into the backend so the UI no longer has to filter out duplicate flow events itself.

> #### Reset TCP connections when a backend pod is deleted (eBPF)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

#### Istio Ambient Mode support

Project Calico now integrates with Istio's Ambient Mesh data plane, bringing the security and observability benefits of a service mesh to clusters running Calico's network policy without requiring sidecar injection.
Two new Felix configuration fields — `istioAmbientMode` and `istioDSCPMark` — control how Felix interoperates with Istio's ztunnel: when ambient mode is enabled, Calico preserves the original destination port of service traffic instead of redirecting it to ztunnel's port 15008, which keeps Calico's microsegmentation `NetworkPolicy` rules accurate end-to-end.

> The eBPF data plane now sends a TCP RST to clients whose connection is pinned to a backend pod that has just been deleted, instead of silently leaving the connection in a half-open state until it eventually times out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

#### Reset TCP connections when a backend pod is deleted (eBPF)

The eBPF data plane now sends a TCP RST to clients whose connection is pinned to a backend pod that has just been deleted, instead of silently leaving the connection in a half-open state until it eventually times out.
```
